Name: Article 16

Title: UAS operations in the framework of model aircraft clubs and associations

Content:
1.   Upon request by a model aircraft club or association, the competent authority may issue an authorisation for UAS operations in the framework of model aircraft clubs and associations.

2.   The authorisation referred to in paragraph 1 shall be issued in accordance with any of the following:

(a)	relevant national rules;

(b)	established procedures, organisational structure and management system of the model aircraft club or association, ensuring that:

i.	remote pilots operating in the framework of model aircraft clubs or associations are informed of the conditions and limitations defined in the authorisation issued by the competent authority;

ii.	remote pilots operating in the framework of model aircraft clubs or associations are assisted in achieving the minimum competency required to operate the UAS safely and in accordance with the conditions and limitations defined in the authorisation;

iii.	the model aircraft club or association takes appropriate action when informed that a remote pilot operating in the framework of model aircraft clubs or associations does not comply with the conditions and limitations defined in the authorisation, and, if necessary, inform the competent authority;

iv.	the model aircraft club or association provides, upon request from the competent authority, documentation required for oversight and monitoring purposes.

3.   The authorisation referred to in paragraph 1 shall specify the conditions under which operations in the framework of the model aircraft clubs or associations may be conducted and shall be limited to the territory of the Member State in which it is issued.

4.   Member States may enable model aircraft clubs and associations to register their members into the registration systems established in accordance with Article 14 on their behalf. If this is not the case, the members of model aircraft clubs and associations shall register themselves in accordance with Article 14.
